
Unspooled (podcast) 
 Connected to: Reginald HudlinCluelessThe 400 Blows
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Unspooled

Presentation
Hosted by	Amy Nicholson
Paul Scheer
Genre	Film
History
Format	Podcast (via streaming or downloadable MP3)
Language	English
Length	1-2 hours
Production
Theme music composed by	Mike Cassady
Publication
Original release	May 17, 2018 – present
Provider	Earwolf
Website	https://www.unspooledpodcast.com/
Unspooled is a film podcast on the Earwolf network. It is hosted by film critic Amy Nicholson and actor/comedian Paul Scheer.[1] Initially, the podcast covered the American Film Institute (AFI) Top 100 films.[2] Later episodes of the podcast have covered other classic movies, with the ultimate goal of creating a list of the 100 best movies of all time.

Format
Each episode of Unspooled covers a single film and analyzes its artistic, thematic, and historical significance.[3] Episodes begin with facts about the year the film was released and a summary of the cast and plot. As the hosts debate what works and what doesn't about each movie, they include audio excerpts from the film to illustrate their points, plus supplemental clips such as interviews with the director and cast. Scheer has described the podcast as a "book club where we are watching movies once a week."[4]

Many episodes also feature guests who are experts about a topic covered in the film or were involved in some way with the film's production. Guests have included Spike Lee, Conan O’Brien, Katharine Ross, Mira Sorvino, Glynn Turman, Talia Shire, Peter Bogdanovich, and Amy Heckerling.

Episodes wrap up with a negative review of the film from the time it was released. In Season 1, the show included clips of The Simpson’s parodies of the film, if available, to demonstrate the film's continued cultural relevance. In Season 2, the show includes a clip of the top song on the Billboard charts the week of the film’s release to examine the film’s connection to the zeitgeist.

Reception
Unspooled debuted at number 1 on iTunes Film & TV podcast rankings and number 4 on the iTunes overall top chart.[5][6]

The podcast has garnered many positive reviews in the popular press. Esquire called it one of the best podcasts of 2019.[7] Rolling Stone wrote that the show was “wildly entertaining” and ranked the show as one of the best podcasts of 2020.[8] Town & Country Magazine lauded it as a “sharp, funny series…[with] charming chemistry,” and Vanity Fair noted that the show's “fresh and intriguing takes on venerable movies make for entertaining listening.”[9][10] Vulture called it “funny and accessible.”[11] Another article in Vulture noted that “Unspooled is definitely among the best of [the good-film appreciation podcasts].”[12] The AV Club described it as “both serious and silly,” and The Hollywood Reporter listed the show as an essential film history podcast.[13][14] IndieWire said that the podcast “provides an interesting context for what does or doesn’t remain timeless in the movie world.”[15] Discover Pods referred to the show as “slightly more highbrow” than Scheer's companion podcast, How Did This Get Made?,[16] while Emily VanDerWerff in Vox complemented its “entertaining segments … [while being] dedicated to placing these movies in their proper historical context.”[17]

Other critics have noted that the podcast is as an "absolute joy ... Scheer and Nicholson usually treat even the movies they don’t care for with a measure of respect."[18]

The podcast has been recognized for its willingness to take a critical eye to respected classics. One review commented that the show “fuels discussions of whether these movies are truly brilliant, or simply just respected because no one has ever questioned them.”[19] Another stated more directly, “Amy and Paul are not afraid to make the point: Do you really need so many movies about Vietnam?”[20]

Conservative media outlets, such as The Federalist, have criticized the podcast for the hosts' left-wing politics.[21]

Episodes
Main article: Unspooled podcast episodes

Season 1: The AFI List
The show began by going through each of the 2007 AFI's 100 Years...100 Movies beginning with Citizen Kane.[1][22] For the first half of season 1, films were chosen by a random roll of a polyhedral die. At the end of the season, the hosts eliminated 60 films from the AFI list. Many were eliminated because of repeated directors or genres, particularly war films and Westerns. Other films were rejected because the director is believed to have made a better film that should fill the slot instead, such as replacing William Friedkin’s The French Connection with The Exorcist. The trimmed list was published as the API List, an acronym of the hosts’ names Amy and Paul.[23]

Season 2 and Beyond: Adding to the List
Following seasons of Unspooled have grouped films into thematic miniseries. Movies are chosen by the hosts and listeners with the goal of expanding the initial list to represent a more diverse, multi-faceted overview of cinema.[24]

Specials, Mini-episodes, and Live Episodes
Unspooled has produced annual episodes covering each year's Oscars and year-in-review series about the best films of that year. Other special episodes include live shows taped at film festivals and at the Alamo Drafthouse Cinema.

Unspooled also has an ongoing series of mini-episodes called Top 3. On Top 3, a guest is interviewed about the three movies they would add to the top 100 list. Guests have included Rian Johnson, Tim Blake Nelson, Melanie Lynskey, Daveed Diggs, Lorene Scafaria, Steve Zahn, Karen Gillian, Tom Scharpling, Ed Brubaker, and Shea Serrano.

The API List
At the conclusion of Season 1, the hosts eliminated 60 movies from the AFI list and kept 40, publishing these selections as the core of their own "API" list (the "Amy and Paul Institute"), with the goal of again expanding the new list to 100 films, this time with an eye to gathering a more diverse representation of film creators and subjects than the AFI list offers. In the following seasons, additional films have been viewed and discussed, and added to the list. The hosts maintain that the collection, when complete, will be "shot into space" so that humanity's artistic endeavors can be shared with alien civilizations.

The API list currently includes 58 films; 40 of which were retained from the AFI list in the final episode of Season 1, and 18 of which were added in the final episode of Season 2.

Notably, the hosts have attempted to include no more than one film by any particular director, but due to the variety and quality of their work three directors are currently featured twice: Alfred Hitchcock, Stanley Kubrick, and Billy Wilder.

The API List
Position	Title	Season Added	Notes
1	Citizen Kane	1	
2	The Wizard of Oz	1	
3	Casablanca	1	
4	Modern Times	1	
5	2001: A Space Oddyssey	1	
6	Singin' in the Rain	1	
7	Do the Right Thing	1	
8	The Godfather	1	included as a trilogy
9	Sunrise: A Song of Two Humans	1	
10	All About Eve	1	
11	It's a Wonderful Life	1	
12	Lawrence of Arabia	1	
13	The Apartment	1	
14	Taxi Driver	1	
15	Rear Window	1	
16	Titanic	1	
17	The Treasure of the Sierra Madre	1	
18	Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolfe?	1	
19	Duck Soup	1	
20	Pulp Fiction	1	
21	E.T. The Extra Terrestrial	1	May be replaced pending review of additional Spielberg films
22	12 Angry Men	1	
23	Star Wars	1	included as a trilogy
24	Annie Hall	1	
25	The Best Years of Our Lives	1	
26	Sullivan's Travels	1	
27	The Silence of the Lambs	1	
28	A Streetcar Named Desire	1	
29	Bonnie and Clyde	1	
30	Cabaret	1	
31	King Kong	1	
32	The Last Picture Show	1	
33	Intolerance	1	
34	Dr Strangelove	1	
35	Vertigo	1	
36	The Lord of the Rings	1	included as a trilogy
37	Double Indemnity	1	
38	Nashville	1	
39	To Kill a Mockingbird	1	
40	The General	1	
41	Back to the Future	2	
42	Night of the Living Dead	2	
43	The Princess Bride	2	
44	Fast Times at Ridgemont High	2	
45	Mad Max: Fury Road	2	
46	Tokyo Story	2	
47	Hoop Dreams	2	Pending a discussion of whether documentaries belong on the list
48	A League of Their Own	2	
49	Bridesmaids	2	
50	A Trip to the Moon	2	
51	Groundhog Day	2	
52	Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind	2	
53	Ganja and Hess	2	
54	Raising Arizona	2	May be replaced pending review of additional Coen Brothers films
55	The Royal Tenenbaums	2	May be replaced pending review of additional Wes Anderson films
56	Inception	2	May be replaced pending review of additional Christopher Nolan films
57	The Thing	2	May be replaced pending review of additional John Carpenter films	
58	The 400 Blows	2	
Spinoffs
Screen Test
Screen Test is an Unspooled film-themed game show hosted by Paul Scheer and Amy Nicholson. Contestants are tested on their “wits, bravado, and collaboration--the three necessities if you want to make it in Hollywood.” The show launched in October 2020 on Stitcher, with some episodes airing live on Paul Scheer's Twitch Channel, FriendZone.[25]

Spool Party
Spool Party is a live stream that focuses on fan favorite films with special guests. Episodes premiere live on YouTube. Shows have featured the films Big, Clue, and Clueless. One episode featured a House Party reunion with director Reginald Hudlin and Christopher “Play” Reid.

This page is based on a Wikipedia article written by contributors (read/edit).
Text is available under the CC BY-SA 4.0 license; additional terms may apply.
Images, videos and audio are available under their respective licenses.
Tell your friends about Wikiwand!
Gmail Facebook Twitter 
https://www.wikiwand.com/
Link

Home About Us Press Site Map Terms Of Service Privacy Policy
Unspooled (podcast)
